I'll start so um today we're going to
talk about convolutional networks for
text and there was a reading but because
I think you know summarizing and going
through is a good way to get any
questions out of the way the first part
will be a brief summary then I'll talk
about some more advanced topics so um
that as I've been doing before I'm going
to talk about sentence classification as
an example problem where we have I hate
this movie I love this movie and we want
to classify them into you know very bad
and very good etc and at the beginning
of this class the first thing that we
tried to do was bag of words so
basically here we look up a score for
each of the word this good medium bad or
sorry very good good neutral mean bad
very bad um and so we have a vector of
size five for each of these over here we
add up our bias and we get our scores so
this was the first example I think this
should be nothing new and we tried to
break this by basically coming up with
things where we had some sort of
negation or we had some sort of thing
where you know basically we can't pick
it up just because by looking at the
words and so the continuous bag of words
actually would still be broken by a lot
of these examples but the continuous bag
of words basically we calculated
features for each of the for each of the
words then we use these features
multiplied it by a matrix added a bias
and got our scores and then this solves
one problem of the bag of words model it
makes us able to share information among
similar words but it doesn't solve any
other problems with having don't like or
not great or something like that so then
the second attempt we made at the
beginning of the class was deep-sea bow
so deep-sea bow basically we do the same
thing we add up everything like this we
instead of just taking this as is we we
basically run it through a couple of
neural network layers to get this
multiplied the weight matrix bias scores
etc so now this is something that I
talked about a long time ago some people
might have forgotten about this but now
if we think about it what do our
features represent what do the vectors
represent so the input vectors they
represent features of the words so we
look up for each word a vector and each
one represents some sort of features of
the words but after running them through
a couple neural network layers we can
learn you know feature combinations we
can learn stuff like a node in the
second layer might be equal to feature
one and feature five are active and
specifically this might be we can
capture things like not in hate appear
in the same sentence so we can we can
capture feature combinations but you
know still this is not quite sufficient
because it cannot necessarily determine
whether it's actually saying not to eat
or don't hate not good etc so we could
think of something like this is a
beautiful movie this is a beautiful
movie that demonstrates how hate not
love is how hate not loved is powering
the tobacco industry or something like
that I don't know I just made up the
sentence it didn't appear anywhere but
it's not the fact that we have because
we have these two words in the sentence
they mean they're kind of canonical way
savings so that may be handling
combinations is not the correct word for
this but handeling handeling local
combinations with in consideration to
ordering is probably a better way
and that's what we do what we aim to do
with CNN's so bag of engrams is kind of
our first attempt at a CNN this is what
we would do before we had CNN's for a
text classification or before we used
CNN's for text classification and
basically what we would do is instead of
taking the bag of words we would look at
individual words in the sentence and say
ie
and hate and this and movie and then we
would also get I hate hate this this
movie I hate this hate this movie etc so
maybe if we went up to three we would
enumerate all of these and then for each
of these you know grams and buy grams
and trigrams we would calculate a
feature vector for each of these right
so this is something that you used to do
I don't know if you did something like
this in your a previous NLP class to do
text classification maybe maybe not no
it's who has done this and I'll be to do
text classification or just in general
whoa that's actually a surprisingly low
number I you know this is a pretty this
is a pretty common method that you can
you can use for a lot of things seven
for one it was okay well so hopefully I
would see most people race maybe it's
just late in the day and people are
tired or something okay
so bag of engrams this is a good
baseline and then we add our bias we sum
all of these together and get our scores
and we use this to calculate our
probabilities so the nice thing about
this is it allows us to capture feature
combinations in a simple way so we
didn't get stuff like don't love from
out the best etc anything as long as
it's up to length three and we've seen
it in our training data enough times to
learn the values it also works pretty
well so I don't know if people have seen
this online this was an interesting this
was an interesting exchange by a
machine learning researcher Francoise
Julie I guess um maybe I got his name
wrong but he he wrote here us and he's a
relatively famous for that but they came
up with this with this kind of nice
tasks for four theorem proving and said
can you beat our eighty three accuracy
baseline and then within a couple hours
he'll domain said sure I can do that it
took me about an hour and I beat it with
eighty five and you can see has the
entirety of his code right here and it's
basically extracting bag of engrams
features so despite the fact that this
this model are for this particular task
they had some pretty sophisticated
bottles bag of engrams is still a pretty
strong baseline I guess you can look
this up this is not a this is not a why
in hell is going to be very mad at me
because he doesn't want to be mr. bag of
engrams apparently but hey okay so
anyway bag of engrams is good um but it
does have some problems so it has the
same problem as basically if you want to
if you want to incorporate combination
features without using a neural network
so one way to incorporate combination
that I talked about before was basically
to enumerate all combinations of
features and you know learn a separate
feature for each of them
that's one way to solve X or that's one
way to solve most of your num nonlinear
problems but the problem is it just
explodes and it doesn't it doesn't scale
both memorize and training-wise
so yeah so actually let me uh if I go
back basically what we do is we
calculate a feature vector for all
engrams of up to a certain length and
then we calculate
feature vectors for all of these in
grams and we sum them together so if we
have things up to three grams in our
vocabulary sizes V for example we would
potentially have V to the three features
right because the we have the first
position we have the second position and
we have the third position and each of
them could be anything in the vocabulary
in reality we only calculate features
for all of the words all of the engrams
that are in our training corpus so
that's myth that's significantly fewer
than you know V to the three but it's
still pretty big if you get a big
training corpus you can try it there's a
number of better a number of better ways
to do things and I believe one of the
papers that I'm going to talk about is
doing something kind of similar to that
and I can explain the parallels but oh
sorry if you couldn't hear the question
the question was what if you calculated
these vectors for each of these orders
separately and then concatenated them
together and did a soft max over that
instead in I think one of the later
papers are going to talk about is doing
something similar although not as direct
any other questions yeah
so the question was can we use a
dependency parse of a sentence to
extract features over by grams and
trigrams and stuff and yes you can I
think it's a good idea it's generally a
good idea it's generally a good idea if
you can extract things that make sense
to you so like if you want to do in in
general if you want to do something for
NLP one piece of advice that I give to
people is think about what you would do
if you were writing a rule-based system
and make sure your model can capture
that without making too much without
doing too much work so the idea would be
like if you wanted to write rules in
those rules required a dependency tree
it might be a good idea to incorporate a
dependency tree into your model in some
way I'm actually also going to talk
about that later so I'll talk about how
we can use dependency trees and stuff
okay so oh I forgot one one important
thing is that they the other
disadvantage of bag of hen grams is that
there's no sharing between similar and
grams so if you say if you say something
like I I hate I hate it or don't hate it
and then don't despise it if don't
despise didn't appear in your training
corpus for whatever reason you wouldn't
be able to use that that information in
generalize so there's no sharing between
similar words and engrams unless you
exactly match them and that's something
that we can improve with neural networks
so next I will explain about
convolutional neural networks and time
delay networks all I'm sure you've
probably at least heard the name of the
second one maybe not the first one um so
the sorry my animation broke there but
time delay neural networks basically our
neural network that looks like this so a
neural network they were invented in
1989 by Alex hribal who is here in the
Quixote but basically the idea is we
calculate a vector we calculate a vector
for each word then we step through the
step through the sentence and we
concatenate the first two vectors and
multiply them by a weight add a bias and
pick at an H then we do it for the
second the second and third vectors and
we do it for the third and fourth
vectors and this gives us some purple
vectors down there that basically
incorporate these things and then we can
do whatever we want with them like
combine them in some way and in do a
soft mix so these are the interesting
thing here is these are like soft by
grams so so the reason why they're like
soft by grams is basically instead of
taking a single word and doing something
to it we're taking two words combining
them together and kind of like
extracting features from them and and
then doing that so this can capture
things like don't hate or not good or
something so this is this is basically
the soft version of bag of engrams that
allows us to consider similarities
between words etcetera so um I'll talk
about it later but it's it's basically
pooling which you read about it wasn't
called pooling in time-delay neural
networks which is why I'm not saying
so then convolutional neural networks
are are something that mainly were first
kind of considered for images and the
way these work as was described in the
in the book a little bit but maybe not
in the context of images is basically
you calculate some features from a patch
of the
and you move it over the vert the
horizontal way you move it horizontally
and vertically and these feature
extractors then extract say five
features for 34 what sees for certain
size patches and then we doing some
similar thing so the the difference the
main difference between this in the
previous one is the previous one was
talking about a 1d sweep over sentences
while this one was is talking about a 2d
sweep over images so so basically we
talk about convolutional neural networks
quite a bit convolutional neural
networks are basically the arbitrary
dimensioned version of time-delay neural
networks if you think about it so we
should if we're doing stuff for text we
should probably call them time delay
neural networks but if you do then
people will get confused so will likely
get confused so call them what you like
but definitely at least cite the the
original paper on this I think to give
credit there um okay so are there any
questions so far because we're talking
about text this time I'm not going to
talk about 2d sweeps through things um
2d sweeps through things are very very
important for images they're less
important for they're less important for
text they're somewhat important for or
they're sometimes used in speech but not
very often because in speech you have an
ordering of the frequencies that you're
looking at and you can sweep over
various orders of the frequencies but
for text we almost always use one
deconvolution so one deconvolution
is basically a time delay neural network
but because the people who have been
using images have kind of been the
people who mainly were in charge of
developing convolution so you often use
terminology or
stuff from image processing so you'll
often see things like channels so the
channel is the RGB channel the red green
blue Channel in text we should probably
call them features instead you also see
you also see various other terminology
but once you get used to it it it
doesn't bother you so much I think um so
then there's a couple other paradigm
there's a couple paradigms in which you
can use neural networks for text I think
the two really main ones are basically
to use them as as feature extractors for
a particular context and then use those
feature extractors for a particular
context to make a prediction basically
and then the second one is sentence
modeling so in this case you do
convolution to extract basically engrams
features of engrams and then you combine
them together in a pool to make a
prediction about a sentence and I'll
talk about both of them in um so both of
these were basically to my knowledge
proposed by collaborate and Weston in
2011 if you haven't read this paper it's
a pretty famous paper so I think many
people have read it but it's natural
language processing almost from scratch
they basically solved all of the
problems in neural networks for NLP but
they were two or three years too early
so nobody realized that they did this
but they this is actually a very good
paper they did a lot of they did a lot
of work and made things actually work
quite well and it really preceded the
deep learning boom so it's kind of an
interesting paper to read um so this is
the this is the CNN's for basically
context window modeling so the context
window modeling is what they're doing
here is they're trying to predict some
sort of tags for each individual word
and the way they do this
so in this case let's say they want to
predict a tag for the word on the way
they do this is they look at the words
on either side so this actually looks a
lot like the Skip Gramm model for for
for calculating word embeddings so then
they extract a they do a lookup over the
words and all the other features so they
might have other features like part of
speech tags or something like that then
they basically concatenate all of these
together and do a linear transform so
this is the idea of the convolution or
the time delay neural network where you
can catenate all your features and do a
linear transform and then you have a
non-linearity in their case they used
hard 10 H you can use anything else that
you want and then you have a linear
function to do a prediction or something
like that over tags so this is a pretty
nice model for part of speech tagging or
whatever they use it for a bunch of
different tasks I think so then CNN's
for sentence modeling they look very
similar
you basically for each of the things
here you you look up things envelope
table you do convolution then you do a
max over time so this is the pooling
operation that they talked about in the
in the reading materials and then you do
a linear transform hard teenage linear
transform so this is the the diff the
main difference here is that you're
doing the you're doing it over all the
words in the sentence and then do doing
pooling afterwards to make a prediction
so this is what you would use if you
want to do sentiment analysis or any
other prediction over over sentences
etcetera
yeah yeah it's almost exactly the same
the structure is different yeah yeah um
so the so are there any questions so far
any other questions okay um so the kind
of like workhorse behind most
convolution is the Const 2d function
this is used for image processing but
you can also use it to do text
processing if you like um so the way
it's implemented is basically you have a
3d tensor and and then you do a
convolution between the between the
input and the filter and the filter is
basically a feature extractor I wrote
here rows eg words but the the words
could also be columns if you like either
either as fine and so then you basically
have this tensor where it looks like it
looks something like this
or it could also alternatively look
something like this where the where the
first dimension represents words the
second dimension is one and then the
third dimension is the features of each
word and they could be you know looked
up this a word embedding or something
like that and then your your filters
filters basically take in rows and
columns and then do input features and
output features so if you have 128 input
features and 256 output features then
the input would be 120 the third one
would be 128 the fourth one would be 256
and then let's say we're doing it like
this the number of rows would be your
Engram size so if you're if you're using
by grams or trigrams
the height would be 2 or 3 basically
another couple of important concepts are
padding and striding so padding
basically the idea is that after after
convolution the rows and columns of the
output tensor will either decrease
increase or stay the same so there are
three varieties of catting or three
varieties of convolution in one case the
rows and columns will stay the same this
is called a same a same convolution in
image land in text land I'm not sure if
we have a special name for this the
other alternative is that the rows and
columns of the input the output will be
equal to the rows or columns of the
input tensor minus the size of the
filter plus one so basically the idea
here is this is very similar to what I
showed in the previous time two-way
neural network this is basically an
arrow Conville
so what I mean by narrow is that the
output gets narrower than the input so
here because the Engram size is 2 and
then put sizes for the output size will
be 3 then the then the opposite is a
wide convolution where basically you get
wider as you do this and any of these
basically you achieve the first one by
not doing any padding whatsoever and
this will reduce this will reduce the
size because will reduce the size the
other one you get by basically padding
either side of the padding either side
with n minus 1 elements and the the
first one you can get by doing
appropriate padding so you get exactly
the same number I guess you would pad
with n minus 1 elements on one side
which one you want to use really depends
if you are doing tagging for example you
will want to you'll probably want to get
the same number of outputs as you get
input so you can predict the tag for
each word so I think the first one is
the common one but you can come up with
other ones as well you can use whichever
one seems appropriate like this and then
striding you can skip rows or columns so
a straight of a 2 for example means
every other one you are there any
questions about kind of mechanics here
yeah
so basically um conceptually it's a
little bit it's a little bit different
if you want to always consider so that
one thing I should mention here is you
could also kind of think of a two
dimensional tensor like this where this
is features or sorry this is features
this is words but when you're doing when
you're doing to deconvolution in
general the semantics of the third
dimension is the features so if you
start out with something like this you
need to do tricky things so first time
you do a convolution and then all
seceding all succeeding convolutions
will be like of a different shape so
because we're using this kind of 2d
function which comes from image land
basically we would like the third
dimension to be our our feature
dimension
so what you're embedding would look like
is actually a one by one one by one
that's what we're actually doing an
example
well that only depends on whether the
position is important for your sequence
labeling problem you could think of
cases in which they do in kind of the
good thing about the color Bert and
Weston paper is they have not only the
words but they also have features of the
words and you could just add a
positional embedding as an additional
features so I think it's a good a good
idea I haven't done it myself but now
that you mention it I you probably
should just add it every time because it
sounds sounds good oh the lookup table
is the the what cup table is the thing
that looks up you are embedding for
either the the words or the features so
if you so this is the to look at this
picture first the this this is the
lookup table is the thing getting the
red ones the convolution layer is the
thing getting the purple ones in this
paper or in this example the thing
getting the red ones would be the lookup
table and then the thing turning them
into the purple ones is basically the
Kin cap linear heart of 10 H is
basically kind of a convolutional filter
and the thing is you do this for every
word in the sentence and because you do
this for every word in the sentence you
gradually move one by one through the
sentence and that that looks like a
convolution in this paper yes yeah
the output dimension you can choose the
output dimension of a convolution is
specified by the number of output
features and that's a parameter of the
model so you can you can pick any number
of output features you want usually
it'll be something like 2 128 or 256
just however many features you think you
should do and it's a hyper parameter
oh yeah
oh um so you yeah you also need a
battery size dimension that would be
like your fourth dimension I guess in in
dinette it's your fourth dimension in
others where or in dinette it's a
special dimension in other ones if
you're going by kind of liking my
semantics it would be your first
dimension and then you'd have to shift
everything yep they're alert date well
they could be pre trained if you wanted
to okay
so I'll move on these are all big
questions I'm happy to take questions
so next is pooling so pooling is
basically if you want to do
convolutional feature extractors for
each Engram in the sentence then combine
them together to get some sort of thing
that you'll use to make predictions and
this was kind of explained in the in the
reading materials but I I thought I
would just kind of simplify this and put
it on here is one thing so max pooling
is by far the most common method for
pooling and I think the reason why is it
actually makes a lot of sense
in terms of a way to combine together
features so basically what this is
saying is did you see this feature
anywhere in the range anywhere in the
sentence so you look through all of the
you look through all of the engrams in
the sentence and try to find any angry M
that matches that feature so that seems
like a good idea right you find really
hate and that's a really strong that's a
really strong indicator so if you have
that anywhere in the sentence you should
make sure that you're using that in your
classifications average pooling on the
other hand is how prevalent is the
feature over the entire sentence so this
might be good if you're doing something
like topic modeling or you wanted to
predict the topic of a sentence so there
if you only see an Engram once it might
be less it might be less informative
than if you see it multiple times so
there if you do averaging that might be
that might be a better choice another
one is k max pooling this was used in a
convolutional model buy a cup runner at
all this is or no or you send a
convolutional model for sentences i
think it was that one and this is did
you see the feature up to k times so
this is like you can count how many
times you saw it you can count how
strongly you saw it um this is not used
a whole lot but it's a it has been used
previously and then dynamic pooling this
is something that is has been used a bit
in the variety and this is basically
like did you see the feature in the
beginning 10% of the sentence did you
see it in the second 10% of the sentence
third 10% of the sentence and this is
kind of a good idea if you want to do
something like variably linked sentences
so you have a sentence of length 30 you
want to kind of know things that appear
in the beginning middle or end etcetera
this this has been used for for a few
applications some of which I'll talk
about later so are there any questions
so far
yeah
mimicks or average well cami X might be
better but you know max kind of max kind
of makes sense in that it's finding did
you see this in the sentence anywhere
and you know finding something in the
sentence anywhere is a is a powerful
feature if you want to if you want to
look something for that one particular
feature but remember there's 128
features that we're extracting so you're
looking for the max of the first feature
than the max of the second feature than
the max of the third feature so you
might find one in Graham in one part of
the sentence for the first feature and
then another Engram in another part of
the sentence for the second future so it
actually does it does make a lot of um
in why Everage pooling a really simplest
example is you know from speech let's
say we wanted to tell whether it was a
man or a woman you can just average the
the spec spectra get a spectrogram and
basically men on average have a lower
voice than women do so taking the
average makes sense sometimes and you
probably wouldn't want to take the max
because even men might have Peaks that
are higher and you might want
variational cooling yeah not variational
but variation cooling I've never heard
of anything like that but you know
um if you can come up with an
application for that then sure it sounds
like you could try it is it the same in
variable it's not the same if it's
variable okay well this is we can talk
about this offline it's an interesting
idea you can try it out um so so let me
let me try to take a look at the code
for what this looks like it's it's not
too difficult so I will I will pull this
down you can follow along so we have to
we have to code examples one is CNN
classification and then one we're going
to talk about visualizing the CNN
results so here um basically that the
top part of the code is all boilerplate
code that you saw in the first day of
the class so the only really interesting
part here is the place where we
calculate the scores of each sentence
and here it is
so as we do in dinette we we read in the
parameters these these parameters are
the parameters for the CNN and the
softmax to take a look at the size we
have in embedding size this is the size
of the word embeddings basically this is
the size of the window that we'll be
using so we're using trigrams this is
the size of the filter sizer it's the
feature size I guess so this is the
number of features in the output um and
for our for our word embeddings we have
embedding is equal to embedding size but
instead we're using the third dimension
instead of the first dimension and
that's precisely because
we're using this constitute a function
that assumes that the features are the
third dimension um then for our filter
we have something that is window size by
embedding size by filter size so this is
the input number of features the output
number of features and the Engram size
and then we have a bias a bias for this
as well then we we go down to the place
where we calculate the scores so one
thing you need to be a little bit
careful of this is kind of an edge case
of thing catching an edge case where our
filter is larger than our sentence if
your filter is larger than your sentence
it crashes if you're if you're doing
this so then we we concatenate all of
the we look up all of the vectors and we
concatenate them together along the
first dimension we run this conf 2d
function with the bias and this will
calculate the convolution we take the
max so we're doing max pooling along the
first dimension then because as a result
of this we'll have a dimension will
basically have features where the third
dimension is a feature dimension in
order to do a matrix multiply we need to
have one where it's the first dimension
so we do we do a we reshape then we run
some sort of nonlinear D here we're
using a rectifier which I'll talk about
a little bit later and then we do in we
do any affine transform in calculator
scores so if you want to do if you want
to create a convolutional sentence
classifier this is this is a simple way
to do it yeah
Max is not a differentiable operation
it's a sub differentiable operation so
this is an important point actually so
max is not differentiable you might want
to if you do and it will vary depending
on which which is the max but it's still
quite common to use in CNN's um the
thing that you really need to be careful
of is something like the arguments so
max you can still back propagate through
because it's sub differentiable Arg max
is it's not a differentiable operation
at all so you can't do something like
pick choose something and then try to
back prop through it and you need to do
something more complicated like like
marginalizing over your choices or doing
reinforcement learning and I'm gonna
talk about that later but max Nexis okay
okay so let me let me clarify this a
little bit it's it's the difference
between constant almost everywhere and
being not constant almost everywhere so
max is not constant but that that's a
good point I will clarify this from any
other any questions about the code
itself okay so I will I will move back
to the PDF to the materials so um we
will view this full screen so this is
the very basics of convolution now I'll
talk about some kind of advanced things
of convolution so the first one is
staffed convolution in the idea this is
basically that we want to we want to
extract features once and then we want
to combine them together one more time
and the idea behind this is in the first
one we can extract by grams and then
based on the things we extracted from
the by grams we can extract try grams or
something like this and in general you
know just making things deeper makes it
possible to extract more complicated
features so the same is for convolution
and you can also extract wider spins as
well
a particularly kind of interesting a
particularly kind of interesting example
of this is dilated convolution so the
idea behind a dilated dilated
convolution is basically at the very
first step we might have a bigram
that is involving things together and
convolving two characters together then
in the second step we we might have a
another thing that's combining two by
grams together so we get four grams then
in the next one
we have a thing that's combining to four
grams together to get eight grams and
then in the next one we can bind to 8
grams together to get 16 grams this I
realized after I created this and after
creating the code simple so this this
graph is of little bits it's a little
bit may be deceiving or confusing so one
important thing about dialated
convolutions is we actually do them at
every time step so we we don't do it
just so one example of a thing that you
can do with these is you could do
something like extracting sentence
classes where basically instead of using
by grams we use 16 grams to classify the
sentence another thing you can do is do
something like predict the next
character in a language model and
there's a there's a nice paper that does
this that calculates the next character
um in the advantage of doing this in
this way is that despite the fact that
you don't have an exponential number or
you don't have a you don't have 16 or a
with 16 filter you can still express
these exponentially longer histories
using using something like this and this
has proven quite effective for language
modeling you could also do something
like word classes for tagging so kind of
the idea is by having this this
structure it makes it more efficient to
calculate very long contexts so are
there any questions here yeah um so I
think you can view this as a type of
recursive neural network in fact it is a
recursive neural network the only
difference is that recursive neural
networks are basically described over
tree structures and those tree
structures don't have to be binary trees
like this the the regulated convolution
is basically a binary tree and because
of that you can calculate it more
efficiently yeah um it is basically a
hierarchy of convolutional layers the
the main difference and the reason why
this slide is a little bit confusing is
because um if you were just doing a
strike to convolutional way or fold by a
strikethrough convolutional layer you
would only get this for a particular
you'd only get this for less but the
dilated kind of lesion what it's
actually doing is so it's a little bit
different in that you get a
representation for each character in the
sequence instead of only every sixteen
um no the reason why I did character
level and I'm sorry I understand that
might be you might have been a little
bit difficult to understand here but the
reason why did character level here is
just because if I wrote 16 words you can
run dilated convolutions over any input
you like it could be characters it could
be words it could also be frames and
audio and it's been very useful for
frames and audio because frames and
audio are very small units and you'd
like to combine a bunch of small units
into a bigger representation but anyway
um the the main difference is that a
stride a strided convolution it's like
combining stranded convolutions but the
main difference is a stranded
convolution reduces the number of
vectors while the dilated convolution
keeps the same number of vectors about
yeah maybe that's the best no you can
define this any way you want you could
even yeah oh oh the number of layers
usually use the same number of layers
for every sequence yeah um in order to
make sure that you can do it you add
padding of some sort yeah
oh this is just yeah I'm sorry which is
better yes in general the you they
wouldn't necessarily have to be but I
think it's a better idea to do that
usually yeah um the question was are the
parameters different at every level okay
so let me move on to the next one this
is kind of an aside but it's actually
pretty important so we have a number of
different nonlinear functions that we
can use you could think of the step
function that's basically zero with your
input is less than zero and one
otherwise we can't use this for the
exact same reason we can't use arc max
because it's constant almost everywhere
so we can't get any gradient information
from it the ten H is the one we've been
using a lot which is a pretty good one
it's a stable to Train etc another one
that people often use is this rectifier
rectified linear units particularly for
convolutional networks I found this to
be effective for other types of networks
tnh seems to work pretty well but for
some reason convolution especially
combined with my ex pooling I've found
this there's also other things like soft
plus hard ten H whatever that people use
for a lot of things you can probably
find a good blog post that compares all
these but
oh that's a good one I actually haven't
tried it myself but I think the
exponential you did when your unit has a
lot of kind of like theoretically it
seems like a good idea based on where
you put based on what the gradients will
be I might talk about that a little bit
later but I'd have to read the paper one
more time before I say anything to try
to not embarrass myself too much but um
you can take a look as well um okay so
why do convolutions work for modeling
sentences so this is mainly in contrast
to recurrent neural networks which we'll
talk about in detail in the next class
but basically convolutions there's fewer
steps from each word to the final
representations so if you think about a
recurrent neural network basically it's
calculating this recursive function
where you calculate from the beginning
to the end of the sentence for a dilated
CNN for example you'll would only have
log N and you could still cover
everything in the sentence you might
have even less if you have fewer layers
they're easier to paralyze on GPU
because you don't use the input of your
previous calculation they're slightly
less natural for handling arbitrary
length dependencies and they're also
usually a bit slower on the CPU than
other things so this is just a contrast
that you can you can think of if you
want to decide which one's it is okay so
I had a question about dependency trees
before and I would like to talk about
some advances to convolution that
basically allow you to incorporate kind
of interesting structure a lot of these
are kind of a kind of recent but
basically language has structure we like
to use it to localize or calculate
features naturally so noun verb pairs
can be very informative but not captured
by normal cnn's because they're far
apart in the sentence so this is exactly
the reason
that we had the question about earlier
um so in example dependency structure
which we was also in the question we
might have something like this so in the
dependency structure we have links
between each of our words in each of
those links as a has a label um so
there's a couple different ways we can
incorporate this one is tree-structured
convolution which basically means
instead of calculating our convolutions
based on instead of calculating our
convolutional features based on things
that are next to each other we calculate
that are next to each other in the
dependency trees so we extract we
extract all of these feature templates
where m is the word itself H is maybe
its parent and G is its grandparent we
also extract m and also its sibling so
anything that's next to it in the
dependency tree etc so this is one
example you can look at more details on
the Oh grim G G squared is
great-grandparent apparently and you can
find more you can find the paper on the
website one that has been applied to and
I'll be very recently in fact I just got
back from an opium NLP where there were
two presentations on this but this is
this is a kind of interesting idea it's
called graph convolution and the idea is
that any graph you can come up with
basically you can create a convolution
where you follow the graph edges and do
some sort of combination of the inputs
based on parameters based on those graph
edges and if you look at if you look
very closely here sorry this figure is
kind of small but you can look at the
paper as well each of the parameters is
which parameter you use to come to eight
this convolution is based on which
goes between these two words so you have
parameters for n mod you have parameters
for object you have parameters for
subject so what you're saying is if this
word has a neighbor that's sorry if this
word has an object and that object is a
dog or something like that you change
the the representation of this word by a
little bit um importantly each word also
has a convolution from itself to itself
that's labeled the self convolution so
you could think of kind of interesting
things where it's like I will keep my
own I will keep my own representation
unless there's a knot somewhere
connected to me in the dependency tree
and if there's a not connected to me in
the dependency tree instead I'll change
my representation so you can think of
all kinds of interesting things that
could be expressed by this this year I
am totally I'm sorry I did the first
part too slowly because I didn't have
very many slides today and I realize
we're kind of running out of time at the
end so I'll try to go through try to go
through you can also think of models of
sentence pairs and I'm going to talk
about this a little bit into more in two
classes but you can think of a lot of
things where you want to talk about the
relationship between sentence pairs so
you can think of things like paraphrase
identification you can think of things
like textual entailment so does this
sentence entail another sentence if this
sentence is true is another sentence
true you can think of also about
retrieval where you want to get you want
to input something like a query and
retrieve a document or something like
that um so all of these things are where
you want to where you want to compare
pairs of texts and kind of the standard
way of doing this is called the Siamese
Network
so the idea of a Siamese Network is is
where you basically have identical
networks on both
sites you run everything through the
network maybe it's a convolutional
network with max pooling and you
calculate a vector and then you compare
these vectors according to some distance
measure and if they're close then
they're probably pairs if they're not
close then they're probably not pairs
and I think the first example of this
was in 1993 which was time delay
networks for signature recognition where
you put in two signatures and basically
tried to calculate if they were the same
so this will work if you want to do like
paraphrasing or something like that a
paraphrase recognition um there have
been more interesting applications of
this or more or better ways to do this
basically using convolutional networks
it's a kind of clever clever idea where
basically you treat the sentence is an
image um where each sentence is one d
essentially but you can pick you
compiled them into a 2d image where the
first part of your feature vector
corresponds to the word and you can
create this matrix and then by doing
convolution over this matrix you can
basically extract which parts of the
sentence match match up well and if you
know particular engrams in the sentence
match well with each other then you get
high feature scores or whatever um and
this was shown to be more effective than
the simple Siamese Network it's not so
surprising because you're explicitly
calculating um then there are more
elaborate methods like where you do
something like a a stacked convolution
where the first one is just you know
grams the second one is by grams or
trigrams the third one then the third
one when you get all the way up to the
third one you have a sentence
representation
and then you do pooling between these
among them so if you want to go crazy
you can go crazy with these and I think
this one was showing better to work
better than the other one before so lots
lots of ways you could do this and if
you want to spend progressively more
space in your paper under elaborate
diagrams of how you do convolution then
this is the method for you I think this
was one whole page okay
so the final thing I think this is
really really interesting people
what often we want to understand why why
is CNN or why a neural network in
general made a choice about something
and why would we want to do this
so sometimes we want to know why a model
is making predictions is there a bias of
some sorts in the bottle so I talked
about this a little bit earlier
sometimes we might want to do bias
things so we aren't making predictions
based on gender stereotypes or something
like this if we can look at our model
and understand why it made its decisions
we might be able to notice too that this
is happening more easily um also if we
can understand the extracted features
this might lead to new ideas about how
we could model our architecture
appropriately so it might give us better
results unfortunately the people
envision are way ahead of us on this
they do a much better job at visualizing
things and methods for text are a little
bit less sophisticated but recently
there's been a lot of advances in this
about how to visualize things as well so
I'll talk about the different kinds very
briefly so I have a link to a blog post
it's on vision things because as I said
vision is a little bit more the methods
have been used more extensively but one
way we can do this is we can look at
each feature and then for each feature
we can basically extract the images that
results are the image segments that
result in this feature having the
highest value so this is an example of
doing this they took the first
feature and extracted the segments that
resulted in being this being big biggest
and we could see that this tended to
correspond to people the second one
tended to correspond to dogs the third
one I can't really tell but um you know
by visualizing things this way you can
you can take a look at things another
way that people have done it this time
it's an example from text what you do is
you take the extracted features you
don't just take them for words you take
them for the whole sentence and in venue
cluster the sentences together and then
you can see you know what the model
thinks of thinks are similar sentences
or maybe what the model thinks are
similar engrams or something like this
so this can be used as well and then the
final one this is a kind of clever idea
basically what they do is they cover up
a particular part of an image and they
cover up the part of the image and then
they see how the prediction changed so
this is also something you could do for
text you could replace a particular word
vector with a zero vector and then see
how the prediction changed and if the
prediction changes a lot you make it
blue if the prediction doesn't change
very much you make it red so here if you
cover up the dog's face you get a very
different prediction but if you cover up
anything else it doesn't make a big
difference I think I think a lot of
people have done this for text I if you
could send that paper out later that'd
be that'd be great no to the references
but I think a lot of these have been
used for text but I was a little bit
lazy in looking up all of them but all
of these are pretty straightforward to
apply to text they're not a I didn't use
the ones that are less I didn't show the
ones that are less straightforward here
um so we have another code example of
this
as I'm running out of time and I'd like
to you know allow for some time for
questions at the end I won't show the
actual code but you can take a look at
it if you're interested what I will show
is kind of an example that we we hacked
up five minutes before the class so
there might be better examples if you
but this is an example of we have
features and for each of the eight
features we look at me what was this
this is the Engram that gave it the
highest what how do we interpret the
columns
it was the Engram it was saying gram
that gave the highest value of the
feature okay so so each of these hang
grams are are things that gave a high
value for that particular feature and
also how much that feature contributed
to the prediction of very good very good
do we do we have the value of the
feature for each of these ngrams maybe
not okay so an additional an additional
piece of information that might be
interesting is how much each of those
engrams contribute it to each feature
but but anyway what you can see from
here is you can see honest and honest
and keenly which is cut off a little bit
in the figure gives a very high value
for very good so honest and keenly seems
to be a good Engram basically and it's
giving a high value for very good here
doesn't doesn't feel is fitting is
giving very bad or bad it's contributing
to very bad or bad so you can kind of
see that each of these n grams in this
particular sentence which one is
contributing to the idea of good which
is
[Music]
I everybody in the class to take this
code and come up with a better
visualization this this is this is a
reasonable visualization but I think you
could do you could do better if you take
out the code and hack it together as I
said I think this is great it's much
better than nothing
but you know kind of visualizing these
in a nice way could lead you to good
insights for your project or whatever I
think it's nice to track okay um that's
it for the slides are there any are
there any questions or final questions
yeah what's up so in the case of images
I think the consensus is yes the deeper
you make it the better your results tend
to be for an LP usually you stop like
the deepest you go is eight eight is
still pretty deep I have heard from
people who have very big data that they
have tried sixteen and sixteen helps a
little bit but not a huge amount one
interesting thing that I this is not
entirely my idea is but from discussion
that I got with some other people is
basically images were starting from very
low level features so because we're
starting from very low level features we
need to learn lots of combinations from
for text we're actually starting from
relatively high level features the word
cats means a lot more than you know the
individual pixels in an image of a cat
so probably we don't need networks that
are quite as steep but that's also what
people said five years ago when they
said deep learning is not necessary for
NLP so you might be I want to take that
opinion with a little bit of grain of
salt
um one important thing that actually I
didn't mention
if you're going to make things deeper
you definitely need to use things like
residual connections or something
otherwise if you just make your net deep
without being careful about it
it will make your results worse being
careful but making things deeper tends
to help and it tends to not make things
worse
day-day weeded being more efficient
you're saying so you're saying it's
being paralyzed that's not necessarily
the case because if you if you think
about it if you wanted to extract 16
five layers of 16 gram features at the
very top layer you would have to use a
16 like 16 times this wide matrix
multiply well in the dilated at the very
top you only have to use a to basically
a size two because it is it is lower for
dilated so you're not just getting from
paralyzation you're also getting from
the okay um it looks like it's time to
finish up so thank you everybody I'm
happy to take any other additional
questions